B2b2e use case (#3491)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/docs/get-started/use-cases/b2b2e.mdx

import AddNewCustomers from 'src/diagrams/docs/get-started/use-cases/b2b2e/add-new-customers.astro';
import UserLoggingIn from 'src/diagrams/docs/get-started/use-cases/b2b2e/user-logging-in.astro';
import AdminManaging from 'src/diagrams/docs/get-started/use-cases/b2b2e/admin-managing.astro';
import UserSegmentTable from 'src/content/docs/get-started/core-concepts/_user-segment-table.mdx';
import CrossTenantUserAccess from 'src/content/docs/get-started/core-concepts/_cross-tenant-access.mdx';
import APIKeyCrossTenantNote from 'src/content/docs/apis/_api-key-cross-tenant-note.mdx';
import TenantAuthorizationWarning from 'src/content/docs/get-started/use-cases/_tenant-authorization.mdx';

## Overview

<B2B2EDescription />

<Aside type="note">
There are multiple users in a business to business to employee (b2b2e) system and the different types can be confusing.

In this document, the term `customer` refers to people who are paying you to use the application you have built. The term `user` refers to their users, typically employees or contractors. Users are the end users of your software application.
</Aside>

## Problem 

> You have an application that you sell to customers; they then have their own users. You want these users to safely log in to your application with a customized experience unique to each customer. Users' identities are controlled by the associated customer, but there may be some personal identifiable information of users stored in your authentication system. You want customers to configure that identity provider connection and control access to your application solely based on it.

Author: Reworked it a bit.

## Solution

With the b2b2e use case, you allow the users of your customers to securely authenticate using customers' identity providers, typically via OIDC or SAML. You also allow customers to manage the identity provider configuration.

> This use case is appropriate when the identity of the end user is *controlled* by the customer. If the identity of the end user is controlled by the end user, the [b2b2c use case](/docs/get-started/use-cases/b2b2c) is a better option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Aside type="tip">
This use case is appropriate when the identity of the end user is *controlled* by the customer. If the identity of the end user is controlled by the end user, the [b2b2c use case](/docs/get-started/use-cases/b2b2c) is a better option.
</Aside>
```

Your customers are the circuses, and their users are *their* employees or contractors. Each circus has its own remote user directory, and wants to control access to ClownTime through those directories. Access is not simply allowed or disallowed; some employees are managers and should have greater access to reports in ClownTime.

You are super excited because you've landed both Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus and Cirque du Soleil as customers; they have large staffs to manage. Here's a diagram of the relationship between ClownTime, its customers and the end users.

<CircusesRelationships alt="Circus relationships diagram."/>

The entities who fill out time sheets can be either people or companies. For example, `ContractMarketingCorp` is a marketing corporation that promotes Cirque du Soleil on a monthly basis. The set of employees for each circus can also overlap. Jamie Morgan is an example of an employee of both circuses.

## Actors/Components

* your customer and their client application (mobile app or browser)
* your customer's users and their client application (mobile app or browser)
* your application
* FusionAuth

## Implementation Steps

> There are a few implementation steps to ensure your customers' employees will be able to enter their timesheets correctly. This is a tenant based implementation, where users are stored in different FusionAuth tenants. The steps include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few implementation steps to ensure your customers' employees will be able to enter their timesheets correctly. This is a tenant based implementation. Your customers will be tenants (i.e. Ringling Brothers and Cirque De Soleil). Your customers' users will be stored in different FusionAuth tenants. The steps include:
```

Reviewer: Do we want to add a note here to talk about how Jamie from Ringling Brothers is not the same Jamie from Cirque De Soleil? It may be the same person but 2 different IDs in FusionAuth.

Author: added.

* Setting up your system to handle adding new customers
* Letting customers' users sign in using their employee directory
* Allowing your customers to manage settings and access reporting

> Here's a high level sequence diagram of the process of adding new customers. Each customer is a tenant in FusionAuth. With b2b2e, you usually want to capture information needed to configure an identity provider, such as SAML public keys or OIDC client Ids and secrets. Store this in your application and then provide it to FusionAuth via API or SDK. This allows users to log in via the correct identity provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a high level sequence diagram of the process of adding new customers. Each of your customers is a tenant in FusionAuth. With b2b2e, you usually want to capture information needed to configure an identity provider, such as SAML public keys or OIDC client Ids and secrets. Store this in your application and then provide it to FusionAuth via API or SDK. This allows users to log in via the correct identity provider.
```

* `cirquedesoleil.example.com` for Cirque du Soleil time tracking

Ensure your web application can respond to multiple hostnames. If you don't want customer specific hostnames, there are [other options](/docs/extend/examples/multi-tenant#data-plane-application-tenant-determination).

There are many other aspects of writing a multi-tenant application, such as logically isolating customer data and handling cross-tenant reporting. Such multi-tenant application architecture guidance is beyond the scope of this document.

#### Configuring FusionAuth

For each new customer, you'll need to update configuration in the ClownTime FusionAuth instance. You'll need to:

* create a new tenant
* create a new application in that tenant
* configure the correct redirect URL for the application
* create a new tenant scoped API key with the proper permissions
* configure the desired identity provider, such as a Google Workspace or Entra ID; this often involves sharing a secret or public key
* configure the application to use desired identity provider
* create email templates and themes appropriate for the customer's brand

> 

Reviewer: consider adding a tip about using a tenant template and then using the API to copy that and update other things as needed.  I thought there was some doc or blog content around that as well.

The [tokens](/docs/lifecycle/authenticate-users/oauth/tokens) contain information about the user and their roles. The ClownTime application can use them to determine correct levels of access or data to retrieve.

### Customer Administration

In this use case, customer admins don't interact with FusionAuth as much as in the [b2b2c use case](/docs/get-started/use-cases/b2b2c). After all, the source of record for user data is the customer's configured identity provider, not FusionAuth. But there are still a few ways a customer admin user could interact with data held by FusionAuth. Common functionality includes:

* reviewing or updating identity provider information
* rotating secrets or certificates
* locking a user
* running reports on usage

> Your application uses the tenant scoped API key and an SDK to allow customer admins to perform management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application should use a tenant scoped API key and an SDK to allow customer admins to perform management.
```

### Implementation Notes

> For a b2b2e application, quickly disabling access is critical. Keep the lifetimes of the SSO sessions and tokens low enough to satisfy your requirements. You need to balance your security needs while avoiding degrading the user experience by forcing them to log in repeatedly. Setting the access token lifetime to be short and using the refresh grant is one way to solve this. You can also set up a [deny list](/articles/tokens/revoking-jwts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a b2b2e application, quickly disabling access is critical. Keep the lifetimes of the SSO sessions and tokens low enough to satisfy your requirements. You need to balance your security needs while avoiding degrading the user experience by forcing them to log in repeatedly. Setting the access token lifetime to be short and using the refresh grant is one way to solve this. You can also set up a [deny list](/articles/tokens/revoking-jwts). One of the nice features of the tenant based implementation is that it allows you to set different lifetime durations and other settings for each of your customers depending on their needs.
```

With this use case, the remote identity providers are responsible for authenticating users to their satisfaction, including applying multi-factor authentication (MFA). FusionAuth, and by extension your application, fully trusts these remote data stores.

You can mix users that are authenticated by FusionAuth and those authenticated by an identity provider. For this use case, within one tenant, you should pick one user data store or the other. For example, smaller circuses may not have an identity provider set up; these customers' users can be managed by FusionAuth, while Ringling users can be managed by their identity store. If you do mix them and the user login source can be determined by email address, use [managed domains](/docs/lifecycle/authenticate-users/identity-providers/#managed-domains).

Users that are provisioned 'just-in-time' using identity providers can use reconcile lambdas to modify the user's application registration, including roles. With [lambda HTTP connect](/docs/extend/code/lambdas/lambda-remote-api-calls) these lambdas can retrieve data from other systems via `fetch` calls.

### Alternative Implementations

> The tenant based solution outlined above has distinct user spaces. If you want a shared user space, where the `jamie.morgan@example.com` user has the same profile data and identity, you need to use a different approach. Instead of separate tenants, have all users in one tenant and model each circus time tracking application as a separate FusionAuth application configuration. Each application has a different identity provider. You can [require registration](/docs/get-started/core-concepts/authentication-authorization#authorization-and-securing-your-application) for all applications and use a [login validation lambda](/docs/extend/code/lambdas/login-validation) to enforce the mapping between applications and identity providers.

Reviewer: I think the bit above explaining that Jamie from Ringling and Jamie from Cirque are 2 different users even though they are the same person with the same email is now required or needs to be explained somewhere in this doc.
